
Et tu brute
Et tu Brute: How could you stab me in the back?
December 14, 2024
by Songgun Lee


Let's say you and I have a close relationship, and you stabbed me in the back with a knife. I will feel a sharp pain, which is an electric signal. The suffering is when my brain reacts as, "Out of all people, you stabbed me in the back!", not "I feel a sharp, cold metal object piercing my skin and muscle fibers in my latissimus dorsi." Pain is inevitable, while suffering is a choice.


When someone shouts a racial slur to my face, I have two choices: to perceive the words as a racial slur or to interpret them as sound waves. If I choose the former, I would feel offended and be irritated for a while. That just achieves what the opponent wants. If I choose the latter, I would "hear" something, sense a vibration in the air transmitted through my eardrums, and try to figure out what the wave equation for that sound was. In other words, I wouldn't "listen" to anything, and it wouldn't affect my mood at all, defeating the opponent's goal.


Separating pain and suffering is very important because it helps us rebound very fast. When I fail an exam and have a very unpleasant feeling, that isn't pain: nothing is physically discomforting me, but I am suffering. We realize that the source of pain is internal rather than external: I am hurting myself. What is really happening here?


In Buddhism, pain is considered avoidable. All sources of pain come from desire, according to Buddhism. If I have a good time, pain starts when I desire that this joy lasts a little longer. If I am going through tough times, pain grows when I desire for this harsh time to end as soon as possible. When you love someone, pain comes when you desire that love back. "I love this person so much; does he/she love me back the same way?" This is the beginning of pain. This also explains how invaluable and hard unconditional love is.


Holding a grudge is also one hurting oneself. It is suffering, not pain. Not being able to forgive is something I truly understand. Most people know the terrible relationship I had with my mom, as she was abusive when I was young. My motivation for success was to be famous and give a speech that I overcame trauma and became the first person to say, "I could have done better without my mom," not praising my mother. I wanted to be successful as soon as possible so that I would never have to deal with her. I wanted to be stronger not only to fight back but to beat her as hard and as often as she did to me. I thought I would never forgive my mother, not only because of the experience but also because that experience molded my personality to be a person full of hatred. I had so much anger in me that it often hindered my growth as a person.


I was able to forgive my mother when I found out a couple of facts. One, she is never going to admit that what she has done is morally wrong; she sometimes even denied that such things ever happened. Two, even if she does admit that she made horrible mistakes and apologizes, my anger towards her would not be resolved. I imagined taking revenge, beating her up, but that scenario did not seem to resolve my anger towards her either. I realized that I was the one who was hurting myself. Even when I was mad at my mom for my childhood trauma, she was never going to feel any sort of remorse or guilt. I found out that I had to be the bigger man in the house and forgive her. Now, we act as if it never happened. My father apologized to me a few years ago instead of her, even when he wasn't the one who did the beatings. In my eyes, now my mom is just a naïve woman who is aging and needs to be taken care of. I am even genuinely thankful for the beatings and verbal violence, because I am happy with who I am as of right now. I admit that I would be pissed to have a child like me—I wasn't the best kid to talk to. I know that she could have made better decisions, but I also acknowledge that she could have done something worse as well. After all, it's her first time being a mother. I have also learned a valuable lesson: hating someone only does damage to myself, not the opponent.


The whole moral of the lesson is that pain and suffering are two different things, and that suffering is just artificial pain created by myself acting on myself—which is self-destruction by definition. As one matures, they must realize that suffering is an illusion, and that pain is also nothing but an electric signal. Don't amplify that electric signal or illusion by consuming the context with your beautiful brain. That will just make it worse. Rather, observe things the way they are, then try to focus on the positive aspects of what you are observing, and be thankful for it. If this becomes your second nature, you will realize that this world is full of beauty and become so thankful that you are able to live on this planet during this exact period with these exact people around you. What's even better is that it will only get better.


I should probably have stopped there, but I'll make a stupid decision to add a couple more things to this. I used to think that the future is always worse: finals after midterms, death slowly approaching loved ones, unexpected goodbyes, and more responsibilities as we age. However, it's really not. The worst part of what's heading its way towards us is the anxiety and worry we have against the event. I learned this in the army when I knew we had some harsh training happening the next week, like a fully armed 20-mile night march that starts at 6 p.m., snowing and raining, with a 45lb gear kit, a 15lb gun, a 45lb vest, and a heavy-ass helmet. The worst time was not the actual march, rather the anxiety hitting me with "IT'S COMING." Of course, the blisters, the cold weather, rolling ankles on the mountain, hiking in complete darkness, aching shoulders, necks, lower-back, feet, hunger—all of them were real pain. But the greatest pain was when I was worrying about it actually coming, the suffering I created for myself. I am trying to reach a level where even the electric signal becomes insignificant, but that would need a lot of training.


I hope you gained something out of this writing, because you get to learn these free lessons without having to do that terrible march. Or if you actually had some similar experiences, please share them with me. I always love hearing stories. Educate me and entertain me. I always learn from you. My life is focused on spreading love, no hatred anymore.


How to throw your life away
How to throw your life away
December 25, 2024
by Songgun Lee


Living life without planning out a long-term goal is like blind folding yourself and flooring the car. The ideal life would be taking some time to figure out what you want to do and start living life so that you can achieve that goal. In other words, you have to look at the map and navigator before you start hitting that accelerator.


When I talk to elementary students, they know what they want to do for the rest of their lives. Or they think they know. That rapidly changes in 5 years. Highschool students often believe that they know what they want to do for the rest of their lives. Especially in physics, I have encountered people who believe that physics is what they want to do for the rest of their lives. I'm thinking of one specific person, who is a freshman and spends his 24/7 on physics. To be very honest, I think this is a terrible decision.


First, you know nothing about it to like it or hate it. This statement is made under the assumption that you are young (in your 20s or even younger) and that your knowledge in that specific area is not on a graduate-student level. For example, physics to a 15-year-old and a 30-year-old are two very different things. A physics enthusiast of age 15 may end up completely hating physics when he is 30, vice-versa. It is important to state that there are people who face their golden ages at a very old age, which is very common in academia. My uncle who is a chemistry professor often tells me that some of the best researchers in the field were struggling in their undergraduate days, and became good in the field in their 50s, even better than the ones who excelled when they were undergrads. Going all-in for a single subject is like betting your whole life on something that you are not so sure of. It's like betting my life savings on whether the cat in the box is dead or alive.


Second, you don't learn certain important factors in life. At this moment, money and human relationships are the only two that I can think of. If your head is focused solely on academics, you won't be able to prepare for the future, when you are all by yourself. If your parents suddenly pass away and you can't pay for your tuition right now, you will have to find a job so that you can survive. Or even if you become very successful in your field, you would have to know how to manage your income in a manner that satisfies yourself and the people that you may be responsible for (family). Some researchers or professors love their job but aren't satisfied with their salary. If they had prepared for the future when they were younger, paying a little more attention to finance, they would have an even better life.


Likewise, human relationships are so important. We live in a world where it is impossible for one to be totally independent. You can't cultivate, hunt, build a shelter, etc. all by yourself. The place where you live is made by someone else, the food that you are eating exists thanks to a lot of different people varying from chefs to farmers and fishermen. In other words, we live in a world where we somewhat depend on each other. It is so important to be a communicable person in this world. I personally believe that it is the parents' responsibility to teach children to be a loving, fitting member of society and if they fail to do so, their child is not having a bright future, which is sad since your beloved child is not welcome to this society. I also believe that women are better communicators, so I like to learn from them. How to talk to someone is very basic yet crucial and is sometimes very difficult. How to get to know someone would probably be a bigger step, since you must have a more engaging and deeper conversation without having an aversion. The final challenge would be how to influence someone, meaning shifting their ideas. This can be used in arguments, closing business deals, finding a romantic partner, etc. Having a healthy and non-destructive argument is very challenging, yet if one experiences it, it means that he has achieved a very high standard. I find every single one of these sub-categories of "how to communicate" very challenging on a day-to-day basis, which is why I try to surround myself with great people, who I can learn from. (So, if we have had more than one conversation, or see each other on a day-to-day basis, I'm treating you as a role model in at least one aspect). I have met many brilliant scholars who are not social: straight-up weird. Although I respect their achievements and respect them as scholars, I believe that they will face a barrier where communication becomes an issue regardless of their expertise. In the same sense, the people that I respect the most are those who can communicate (not weird and have a sense of humor) and have great achievements in their expertise. These are the ones who inspire future generations that they can be successful as well. The weird ones discouraged me making me feel like I must dedicate my whole life, sell my soul, to become successful.


Lastly, there is just so much fun in life. Academic achievement is not the only factor in anyone's life quality. For example, I would rather have a semester having amazing meals and get a B in every class than have a semester having garbage food every day and get A+s in every class. I sometimes leave my academic priority behind and go running or lifting. I often find it even more helpful in an academic perspective than glueing my ass to the chair since I focus better after my workouts. It's not hard to start focusing and my focus span is prolonged after my workouts. There is so much hidden joy in life that you can find. You can make your meals better and cooking can be a joy. You may find being in nature to be fun and start trail running or backpacking. I personally found observing people and capturing the moment to be very fun and started photography. I also found joy in starting and running my own business – it's not solely about making profit, but also leading a team, changing lives, and observing customers' reviews. Others find joy in art, such as making music or painting.


Some people believe that they should wait until they achieve a certain goal or reach a specific milestone before taking the time to figure out what they truly want in life. However, this logic contains a fundamental flaw: how can you work toward achieving a desired outcome without first understanding the ingredients necessary to achieve it? Shouldn't identifying and working on those ingredients come before pursuing the outcome itself? Is it even possible to achieve a meaningful result without first clarifying what you genuinely value and desire?


To delay self-discovery until after achieving a goal is to risk spending years pursuing something that may ultimately feel unfulfilling. Why invest time and energy in a path that feels painful, only to realize later that you could have used that effort to build something aligned with your true desires? Why endure years of struggle in a metaphorical hell, only to seek heaven after reaching a certain point? Wouldn't it be far more productive—and fulfilling—to chart a course toward your own version of heaven from the start?


To put some more personal thought in, I like to divide 24 hours into 3 sections of 8 hours. 8 hours of work, 8 hours of rest, and 8 hours of sleep. 8 hours of rest may seem a lot, but it actually isn't; 8 hours of work is 8 hours of studying for students, and that is actually a lot. I usually fail to live this way, but when I do find myself following these rules including weekends, I find myself making the most progress and being in peace. For me, going to the gym counts as "rest" since I get to empty my brain, and sometimes some classes count as resting too, since I really don't do anything.


There are a few statements that I find to be very important in our 20s. One, experience and failure is key. A good friend of mine told me about the phrase "fuck around and find out". I think this is the mentality that a person in their 20s should have. Try everything out: learn how to surf, cook, taste coffee, run, lift, read books, and make friends. I found that having experience in a romantic relationship to be crucial. After breaking up, I realized that I have been taking other relationships for granted: my friends can literally stop talking to me at any point, but they decide to keep the relationship. I am thankful for every one of my friends for this reason. This also means that failure is important. We will face challenges all the time, and success isn't always guaranteed. I would rather fail a lot in my 20s than fail in my 40s if I had to choose between one, since currently I am only responsible for myself but later in life, I would be responsible for a whole family. I would rather feel pain by myself than to watch my wife and children suffer. Learning how to recover and bounce-back after failure is so important, and you can't learn this without actually failing. The greatest risk isn't failing: in fact, the greatest risk is not even trying. You miss 100% of the shots you don't take. Go out there, experience, fail, and bounce-back. Life is tough, but with the right people, life becomes easy and fun. Sometimes you may even find yourself wishing Monday to come.


I will use a lot of quotes from One Life to Lead written by Russell Benaroya starting from here.


The most important part in your 20s is finding out who you are. Who am I? What do I like? What do I dislike? What do I want? What do I don't want? Why do I want what I want? Why you do something reveals much more than what you do. These questions aren't straightforward. They are actually very challenging. It takes more than days to figure this out. Yet, it is so worth asking and answering these questions oneself because it leads to the step of planning your long-term goal in life.


I want to conclude this piece with a cheat sheet of how to find out what you like - finding your "genius zone" as Russell puts it. Try answering these questions provided by Russell, and you'll get what I mean.


What comes naturally to you?
When do people say, "Wow, how did you do that?"
What are you doing when you lose track of time?
What are you doing when you feel most accomplished?
What do you do such that when you're done, you feel even more energized?
Find your "genius zone" and talk to me. Find an overlapping part in your genius zone, what the world needs, and what the world values. I can think of so many classmates who have amazing genius zones that are highly valuable to the world.


I want to make a positive impact on "my world", and I define it as 2 things: being a responsible father and repaying to people who I'm thankful for. I am trying to find the method to achieve these goals and will never stop. Take some time today and think about what you really want, and why you really want it. This writing is inspired by Russell Benaroya, a UCSB alumn. Thank you, Russell, for such an amazing inspiration. Thank you all for taking the time to read this article.


My Philosophy in Photography
My Philosophy in Photography
March 30, 2025
by Songgun Lee
I die. All the moments I have sacrificed so much to seize what I wanted become meaningless. Yet recognizing the inevitability of death has set me free. The instant I understood that time flows only one way, the present became desperately precious. I feel nostalgia for right now—
"Ah, someday I'll miss this very moment, too."
My heart aches after parting with someone I love; I shrink when my boss scolds me; I bomb a final exam—still, every second tastes rich to me. When I let the present flood my whole body, I know I am alive, and I record this fleeting instant that will never return. That is why the world I see is so breathtakingly beautiful. 
To capture the now I remember, I press the shutter. Unlike many photographers, I don't edit afterward. My photos are simply "eye screenshots," not attempts to make something look grander or prettier. You won't find the usual "artistic intention" critics and photographers talk about.
The images on display show the world exactly as Songgun Lee experienced it. You are, in effect, a spectator inside my eyeball. It's my answer to the question that goes a step beyond "What would I look like through your eyes?"—namely, "What would the whole world look like through your eyes?"


You were beautiful. Your image in my eyes was a white pearl beauty without a trace. I wanted to remember that kind of image of you. I wanted to show you this beauty that can only be seen from my point of view.
Your first gift was a used camera. The Nikon 5300, which was 300 dollars, was too big for me at the time, was what I had saved as a favorite in Facebook marketplace. I always took the Nikon with me when I met you. Your youth, given into my hands, was breathtakingly beautiful. I knew that it would be the image of you I wanted to look back on someday, not to let it slip away with my own eyes. What a waste it would be. I wanted to capture your most beautiful self, the 'you' as you are, and you as you are from a subjective angle, 'my eyes'. I wanted to let you know that you are not just beautiful in my eyes, but that everyone who actually sees you is looking at such a beautiful woman. I wanted to show you how beautiful you are, that it is an ‘objective beauty’ being able to capture with a camera, not a ‘subjective beauty’ that I only see.
I didn't want to let this stupid memory of mine lose you, with few memories from before high school. I didn't want to forget this view of mine. The world I see is a completed canvas, and at the center was always the main character of a beautiful heroine, you.
You're gone, but thanks to you, I know that this world in my eyes is a perfect piece of art. The beauty of this world that I would not have been aware of before is now caught in my eyes dozens of times a day. You gave me the gift that the world, the scenery in front of my eyes, is a work. I have decided to pay it forward to this world for this grace I have received from you. In the same daily life that someone may pass by unconsciously today, I discover the beauty and capture it with my eyelids, through shutters.


I chased a good job to buy a good house, chased a good school to land a good job, and slogged through studies I hated to reach that school. A fat tuition bill came as a bonus. Paying what I never wanted to pay and doing the job I thought I wanted, I found myself forced to communicate with people I never wanted to talk to. Following the success formula others handed me, my mantra "You can't only do what you like" turned into "Will I ever get to do what I like?" and finally into "What did I even want in the first place?" I charged toward what I thought was a distant utopia, but landed in hell—and even there, I was hopelessly lost. On the way I lost friends, family time, money, hours—above all, I lost myself, only to fall straight into hell.
But once I harnessed death’s certainty, everything felt light. 
‘When I'm dying, will I really care that I didn't get into a top school or failed the perfect job hunt? Since I'm going to die anyway, why not do what I actually want?’
My first real dream, the earliest one I remember taking seriously, was to become a pilot. Not the kindergarten fantasy kind—this was middle school me thinking: travel the world, earn great money, and after a long-haul flight get at least two days off. To that middle school kid, it was the ultimate job. Looking back as an adult, the core was "freedom." I wanted to spend my time on things I chose—roam, experience, and most of all, have fun. Yet scanning my 24 hours, I found no action intentionally and deliberately made purely for the sake of fun. Stretching the view to a whole month, I realized photography was my single act of joy that I intentionally make time for the sake of “fun”. I would go through my day, and when I notice a beautiful scene, I would remember the time and location, then a couple of days later, I would come back with my camera to capture the beautiful piece of art that stands in front of me. The world is a 3-dimentional canvas to me, the flowing artwork I experience with my whole body, and I'm just a part of it. 
This exhibit is just one ordinary person's example of returning to an original dream, remembering the reason behind it, and turning that reason into action.
So I ask you: What was your primal dream? What reason or desire fueled it? Whether it was happiness, freedom, fun—are you, in your current 24 hours, your current 30 days, doing anything with that deliberate intention in mind? If we can't reverse or stop time, perhaps living truly means plunging into the present with every fiber of our being, riding its one-way flow like a current, not fleeing it. Acting on our first intentions—consciously, deliberately—may be one path. Death’s certainty isn’t a weight on my back; it’s the wind at my heels. As I conclude, I invite you to this thought.


Why Altruism is a Mental Illness
Why Altruism is a Mental Illness
Selfishness vs Altruism
May 4, 2025
by Songgun Lee
Altruism is not a destination. It is not synonymous with love, nor is it the ideal mindset.
To be clear, if one had to choose a guiding principle, "live altruistically" is generally a far better choice than "live selfishly." In most cases, altruism brings about better outcomes in one's personal life.
However, those who insist on blind, absolute altruism—who preach "always be selfless" without room for nuance—are far more dangerous than those who advocate selfishness. At least the selfish reveal something others can learn from. But the blindly altruistic hide behind masks of goodness, showing hypocrisy, discomfort, and a kind of moral manipulation that ultimately pushes others toward selfishness. It's more honest to live with one's true intentions than to conceal them beneath a veneer of virtue.
Altruistic people often do not question their own beliefs. They live in imagined realities, unaware of how their ideas might disturb others, believing their delusions to be truths. They know they are perceived as good, and they play the part convincingly—soft-spoken, agreeable, conflict-avoidant. They suppress disagreement under the guise of tolerance and shower others with passive, hollow courtesy. People sense something off, but it's hard to challenge them. Their image of kindness shields them from criticism, even when their presence feels unsettling.
Compared to them, the openly selfish are more respectable, if only for their honesty. To avoid becoming a hypocrite, one must understand the true nature and origin of altruism.
Selfishness isn't abstract or philosophical; it's visceral and real. It is the desire for pleasure, comfort, safety—things that make our bodies feel good. When we are fed, rested, or sexually gratified, we feel joy. When our bodies suffer, we feel miserable. This is universal.
Altruism, in contrast, is not instinctive. It is taught. Human societies instill altruism through moral education, religion, and social expectation. But these teachings function only if one believes in, or submits to, ideals like divine will or rational duty—concepts that often remain theoretical and disconnected from everyday experience.
This is why people often perceive moral preachers—who speak of altruism yet act selfishly—as hypocrites. It's easier to admire someone honest about their selfishness than someone pretending to be selfless.
Ultimately, the foundation of altruistic behavior is selfishness. The motivation to make others happy comes from our desire to feel good, to avoid guilt, to build meaningful relationships, to achieve a sense of purpose or social reward. This doesn't taint altruism—it makes it understandable. It is because we are selfish beings that we are capable of altruistic acts. Self-interest is the root, the energy, and the biological foundation of our ability to care for others.
Hunger and sexual desire are often seen as selfish impulses. That's true—they can lead to negative consequences. But those same impulses are what allow us to live and reproduce. Without hunger and sexual desire, we wouldn't exist in this world. Selfishness, then, is the prerequisite for altruism. It is the wellspring of life itself.
Dividing selfishness and altruism into good and bad is reductive. Instead, we should speak of wise selfishness and foolish selfishness. Wise selfishness considers long-term consequences, evaluates risks, and acts for sustained happiness. Foolish selfishness seeks immediate gain at the cost of future suffering—for oneself and others.
Foolish selfishness manifests in two main forms: blatant greed and performative altruism. People who misunderstand love as merely emotional or moral goodness often conclude that caring for others is right and caring for oneself is wrong. But every moral tradition, from Confucianism to Christianity to Buddhism, ultimately links altruism to long-term personal well-being. To strip altruism of self-interest is to misunderstand its essence.
Suppressing self-interest too much leads to psychological illness. Repression causes buried desires to resurface as distorted behavior, disguised as virtue. People begin to fake altruism, not out of love, but to satisfy their twisted needs for control, recognition, or self-worth.
History shows that most brutal acts of conquest, invasion, and genocide were committed in the name of noble causes: justice, enlightenment, love, patriotism. Altruism, when unchecked, knows no guilt. This doesn't mean altruism is evil, nor is selfishness. Nor should we claim there's no difference between them. In fact, the notion that "everything is relative" is itself a danger—it dilutes wisdom and erodes clarity.
As your understanding deepens, what once felt abstract or moralistic will reveal itself as universal truth. When you see the world through love, it becomes lovable. When you act with care, others begin to care in return.
In the end, we don't behave altruistically because it's righteous—we do it because we want to be happy. The desire for serotonin, dopamine, and oxytocin is natural. Self-interest is the most human instinct we have, and it is also what enables us to build families, communities, and meaning.
It is not wrong to seek simplicity in messaging for the public. The masses need digestible truths. But behind that simplicity should be understanding—not delusion. It's time for honest, selfish people to challenge fake altruism. Speak up. Be real. And remember: one who stands still in this world will fall behind.
Choose your path with the long-term in mind. If your goal is happiness, then your method might involve hardship today. But better to walk a hard path knowingly than to chase an easy one blindly.